[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: How many
times have you died?
>>DANNION BRINKLEY:
I've died so many times,
it's like a comedy routine.
>>NOORY: You keep bouncing back.
You're like a rubber ball.
>>BRINKLEY: We're
living in a world
where everybody's scared
to death of death.
Death as you'd think it
happens does not happen.
Over there, you're not
separate from anything.
You are it.
You will see your whole life
pass before you in a 360 degree
panorama, and then you will
literally become every person
that you ever
encounter, and you'll
feel the direct results of
your interaction between you
and that person.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>BRINKLEY: You will take
your last breath here.
And the more you're
prepared for it
and the more you understand
it and the better that you
understand it, the more
living you're going to do.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Our friend Dannion
Brinkley with us.
He has taught millions
not to fear death.
Dannion, of course, hasn't been
on the program in five years.
Now, I know you've
died several times
since that five-year period.
What's been going on with you?
>>BRINKLEY: Well, George,
you know I've been around--
I've died so many times,
it's like a comedy routine.
>>NOORY: My God.
>>BRINKLEY: But in
this last experience,
I had an aneurysm
under my aortic valve.
I went to a blood
pressure of 12.
>>NOORY: 12?
>>BRINKLEY: Mm-hmm.
And I went into
cardiac arrest, and I
had to have open heart surgery.
When the surgeon got in there
to do the open heart surgery,
she said the amount of scar
tissue that I had inside
my body from being
struck by lightning
45 years ago was so much
damaged that she came out
of the surgery and told
my brother and my sister
and Katherine that I probably
wouldn't make it 10 days.
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>BRINKLEY: Well, I
only made it five days.
But the point of this
story is now here
is four of these experiences.
I started back when
"Saved by the Light" came.
I wrote it in 1993.
It was published in '94.
And I told about being
struck by lightning in 1975.
And so the story of being
back on "Beyond Belief"
is that opportunity to bring
that information forward.
We're living in a
world where everybody's
scared to death of death.
Well, in 1975,
George, when I finally
took two years to learn
to walk and feed myself
after the first
near-death experience
and what became the boxes
of knowledge, they were 12.
And now we're in the
12th and final box.
So based on all those
things that occurred,
the time we are right now is
so critical and so important
that we have to pay really close
attention to what people learn
from the near-death experience.
>>NOORY: How many
times have you died?
>>BRINKLEY: Three.
I've had four
near-death experiences.
One, struck by
lightning, I was dead.
Then I don't count coming
out of open heart surgery
into the intensive care unit
because I have no memory.
I have memory of the fourth
near-death experience,
the same panoramic
life review and what
they're showing me again.
And I always tell people,
never want to know everything.
Because if you want to know
everything, and you go heart--
that's my second
open heart surgery--
and you see the vast
wonderment of who
we are as spiritual beings and
reinforce so many things that
getting older I've
learned to understand,
it becomes just so important
that we take a good look
at how critical this is
and what Box 12 represented
and what it really means
to-- like a call to action.
It's why I really wanted to
get on this show, George.
We need to have a call to
action about the value we
place upon this thing
that we call death.
>>NOORY: How do you
stay so upbeat, so
positive with all these
experiences that happened?
>>BRINKLEY: Well, everybody
has a purpose, George.
I'm lucky enough to know mine.
I mean, I learned it in
1975 as a jackass to see
that I am a spiritual being.
And in a succession
of events that
allows me to have a conscious
voice to say, hey, look,
everything that you're
afraid of, pain, suffering,
losing everything,
being dead, I've
already been through all that.
I've been through
it so often that I
chose to be at the bedside of
people going from this world
to the next, and to help
develop and create programming
that now the VA has the No
Vet Die Alone program, which
came from the Twilight
Brigade, which
is what you help me build.
And now by creating
these programmings
and be able to bring
this knowledge forward,
I look at palliative
and end-of-life care
and knowing in
this next pandemic,
you're going to have to be home.
So if we're in Box 12,
which I believe that we are,
and being there,
the critical things
that people have to decide
is take a good look at death.
Because remember,
George, in life, there
are things that are certain--
>>NOORY: And that's one of them.
>>BRINKLEY: Certainty.
And if you breathing,
you're leaving.
>>NOORY: Yep.
>>BRINKLEY: And it's
guaranteed and inevitable,
and I've taken that
on myself to do.
I've always talked about
that the battle for the souls
of humankind would be
fought in the health care--
you've been listening
to that for 18 years--
and that we are there
and that this program
would come into play, which
is what we're watching now,
called the lockdown or the
pandemic, would come into play.
And that when you think about
the battle for the souls
of humankind being
fought in health care,
and you look at everything
that's distracting us,
but it gets back down to health
care, then I'm pretty sure
we're there.
The thing that troubles me
is I have seen and watched
this thing unfold for 45 years.
And I've been reinforced
bunches of times,
both being a hospice
volunteer for 43 years
and being with 2,013 people
going from this world
to the next.
So I don't have a
problem about whether I'm
an expert in death and dying.
But if we don't take
a conscious look at it
and we keep driven
to be afraid, then we
lose a certain connection
to our spiritual selves.
And I think that that's got
to be an important issue.
>>NOORY: Matías De Stefano
talked about his remembrances
of past lives, much like you.
>>MATÃAS DE STEFANO: Unity is
not something that we are going
to live as a real
thing in this planet.
The reality of this
universe is that there
is no time and no space
because everything is just one.
There is no split
in times, there's
no split in perspectives,
there's no split in space.
So that's why unity is
the only state where
you could feel everything,
where you could see everything,
where you could be anywhere.
Sirius for us was the
spot where we could
learn how to go back to unity.
We used to call Sirius, In-Na.
That's the name we had
for the two stars--
the bigger one, In,
and the small one, Na.
In-Na.
We were called the In-Na people.
And the In-Na people
has this story.
At the first beginning,
there was nothing.
There was a void.
And from that void, there was
a breath, a breathing that
starts to create every reality.
By that breathing, a door
was opened in the universe,
the door of the self.
And the self went through
every time and every space.
We call that the M, the
portal, the H, the time,
and the S, the space.
So the name for the
universe for us was Mahas.
Mahas was the creation,
was the consciousness going
from this unity
towards everything,
towards every dimension.
And after that, we realized
that, where does it go
and what is the limit of that?
But we realized that
it was limitless.
There was no end.
There was no purpose.
So the only purpose
that we had was
to try to understand
every space, to understand
every time, and then bring them
all to the portal to the self
again.
>>NOORY: Dannion, do all
of you who go through those
experiences all have the same
kind of thing happen to them?
>>BRINKLEY: The
near-death experience
has a certain basic
structure to it.
And as I'm listening
to him, this
is a person trying
to explain something
that I know what he's
trying to explain.
>>NOORY: You've been there.
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah.
And he's trying to
find a language.
When you look at this, George,
and you are brave enough
to step up and look at it,
the inevitability of it,
then there are basic
markers that exist in it.
You will see your
life pass before you.
The near-death experience
has created a point
where it's worth studying,
observing, and looking at it
because we are in the place
where transition is inevitable.
Half of the population
of America--
some 74 million people--
are in an age group called baby
boomers and a little older.
So this issue is theirs.
>>NOORY: Oh yeah.
>>BRINKLEY: And when you look
at the demographic of men
and women in their
50s, women are
going to be the
primary caregivers
for one or more parents.
Primary caregiver.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>BRINKLEY: And
then they're looking
at how their life is
shifting and changing also
when you hit the mid 50s.
We know.
We understand.
We can look back we
can look there and see.
This becomes such a
critical point, George,
in where evolution
of the human being
is in a situation that,
to me, is frightful.
But you ask me why I'm always
upbeat in the most horrible
situations and--
>>NOORY: You are.
I've never seen
anybody as upbeat
as you are during some
really tough, tough times.
>>BRINKLEY: I know
I'm a spiritual being.
And I know that everybody
that's watching and listening
are a spiritual being too.
I know you were chosen
to come to this place
and you chose to come here.
And to get here is
getting into the Olympics.
It's like getting in
on the Olympic team.
You have made it
to the opportunity
to in this dimension that
we call human experience.
You have made it to
this opportunity to,
I always say,
practicing being a God.
Because if everybody
wants to know
their life purpose, George,
it's to practice being a God.
And when I say
that, think of this.
If you take a piece of
paper and write down
everything you hope God is,
loving, caring, compassionate,
all-knowing, protective,
safety, never alone,
how many times per
day in your life
do you get a chance to be
every one of those things?
The answer is all
day, every day.
I know that's the
meaning of life.
So I have to struggle with
the fact that knowing you
don't die, knowing I
didn't go to hell--
and I've been over
there four times.
I've never been to hell yet.
>>NOORY: Good.
>>BRINKLEY: So I know I'm
not going to go to hell.
>>NOORY: Good.
>>BRINKLEY: I know
I'm not going to die.
So I get excited about
living this opportunity,
to be able to make a difference
in the lives of people that
are frightened about
death, and have
a sense of confidence
and security
they can trust what
I'm telling them.
I'm not doing what this
young man is doing.
He's explaining the heritage
and history of his people
in phraseology.
Well, I don't see it
like that, George.
We're structured as
human spiritual beings.
There is a structure.
You have a life review,
the great book of judgment.
You will see your whole
life pass before you
in a 360 degree panorama.
You will watch it from a
second-person point of view
as if you were your
own best friend.
And then you will literally
become every person
that you ever encounter.
And you'll feel to direct
results of your interaction
between you and that person.
When you put that
into context, which
is a basic tenet of the
near-death experience,
if that doesn't
change your life,
there's something really wrong.
>>NOORY: Nothing will.
Nothing will.
>>BRINKLEY: Something's wrong.
And I've been through
four of those puppies.
>>NOORY: You've
talked about Box 12.
Tell me about that.
And then you've got an
excerpt from your book
that you want to read us.
>>BRINKLEY: Well, it's
"Saved by the Light."
And Box 12 was when I
had this vision in 1975
and struck by
lightning, George, it
came down to what I call
the Boxes of Knowledge,
where these beings showed
me this information.
When I saw this
information, I thought
it was a timeline being
created for me that I
had to reach certain points
into succeeding in what I had
to reduce in the fear of death.
I never saw it as prophecy.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>BRINKLEY: I never
saw any of that.
It was Raymond who started
that rage because, in 1976--
>>NOORY: Moody?
>>BRINKLEY: --I
told him that the--
>>NOORY: Raymond Moody?
>>BRINKLEY: Dr. Raymond Moody.
I told him that the Soviet
Union would collapse,
I told him about Chernobyl, that
this would happen in the '80s,
and I called it Wormwood.
I didn't know the
Ukrainian word--
>>NOORY: Well, that's
what Chernobyl means.
>>BRINKLEY: --in Ukrainian.
So when that all happened,
as those two things happened,
Raymond began to
spread the word.
>>NOORY: One of the best people
for after-death experiences
in terms of knowledge
is Dr. Raymond Moody.
>>BRINKLEY: Oh, absolutely.
Raymond was a philosopher.
And one of the most
brilliant minds--
all great psychiatrists
and great philosophers
are a little crazy.
And all of Raymond's
best friends
have been dead for 3,000
years, Socrates, Plato.
And his best friend
was Dr. John Dees,
but he died sometime
in the 1500s.
But I met Raymond
in 1976, George.
And he asked the
right questions.
Because when I had
this experience,
I never heard of it.
And he hadn't even
published "Life after Life."
And I met him at the University
of Georgia Medical Center,
and I went to a program.
And we met and started talking.
And he asked the right
kind of questions.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BRINKLEY: And so Raymond's
never had this experience.
He's a philosopher with
a forensic psychiatrist
mind and brilliant.
And so when he
brought this forth,
then when I would
talk to him, I was
describing the things
that were happening
and trying to find language.
You have to really work hard in
dictionaries and thesauruses,
George, to find words that take
an emotion or an ethereal--
over there, you're not
separate from anything.
You are not separate.
You are it.
And then you have to come
back into this domain.
And I have to use
English to find
words that express that like
what this young man was doing.
>>NOORY: Well, Dr.
Moody, back in 1975
after one of your first NDEs,
was on the Gaia series "Legacy"
recently and talked
about an experiment
he conducted to try to
contact the other side.
>>RAYMOND MOODY:
Basically, this was
the technique I figured out.
I asked them, each
one, I said, I
want you to choose one
person who died that you
would like to see again.
And then they would
come to my place,
10 o'clock in the morning-- this
would be one on one all day.
And I would spend an hour or two
with them just basically saying
like, tell me about
this person who died.
What was this person like?
Then you just let them
talk as long as they will,
then you come back with a
slightly less open-ended
question.
What are some of your
fondest memories?
Let them talk until they will.
Then, what are some of the
hang-ups in their relationship
that you regret?
And so on.
But the thing is just to talk
about the person who died.
And then I would escort
them into this little room
and I would put
them in the chair.
And I would say,
just get very relaxed
and let all these feelings and
thoughts go through your mind
and gaze away into the mirror.
And I would say, I'm
going to leave you here
about an hour, hour and a
half-- say it very casually.
And if when I come back,
something is going on,
you just shoo me away and
come out whenever you want.
And then when I would
go in and retrieve them,
then I would spend an
hour or two or more
afterward just processing
what they went through.
And I set this
up, and my thought
was, well, if I do 50
of these, I'll probably
get five or so cases and I
can write a little paper.
And I felt certainly that since
these were my psychologist
students or my
medical colleagues who
had studied about the mind
that if anything happened,
they would say something
like, oh, yeah.
I saw this image.
It looked like my grandma.
But was it real
or was it a figm--
I don't know.
That was what I expected.
Imagine my surprise when the
first person I put in there--
44 years old, a very
distinguished alcohol rehab
counselor, just a
very grounded person--
came and prepared all day
to see her husband who
had died two years before.
But she came out of there
astonished and she said, well,
I didn't see my husband, but
my father showed up and stepped
out of the mirror.
She said the first thing
she saw was, like, in there.
But then her father came forward
and emerged from the mirror.
Randy was this lady's name.
And I said, well, you--
assuming that it would be
dreamlike, but I was astonished
she said, no.
This was really my father.
And that was the reaction
I got from everybody
I took through there, that
no matter how psychologically
informed they were, they
took this to be a real event.
>>NOORY: They don't come any
better than Dr. Raymond Moody.
>>BRINKLEY: Oh, George.
And watch this.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
>>BRINKLEY: I was
present when this program
was being developed.
This is before "Saved by the
Light" or before any of that.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BRINKLEY: Raymond
and I were working
on projects and programs,
and we did Joan Rivers.
We went on the show
with Joan Rivers.
And you know how I am, George.
You know I'm pushy.
So as she was--
>>NOORY: (SARCASTICALLY) You?
[CHUCKLES]
>>BRINKLEY: She
was placating us.
And Raymond and I were
working this program.
We called it the "Dr. John Dees
Memorial Center of the Mind."
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BRINKLEY: And I
remember these people.
Well, Joan Rivers--
I told her.
I said, well, why don't you
just come to Anniston, Alabama
and go through the program?
Because we had four or
five different steps.
She came down and filmed it.
She saw her husband Edgar,
but she went to Melissa.
She went to her daughter
from Anniston, Alabama
to California.
She described exactly
what she was doing.
She said she was
taking a shower and she
talked about what was
laid out on the bed
that she was going to put out.
And Joan described it in detail.
And I said, well,
let's call her.
So you get on the phone
and she calls Melissa, what
were you doing 20 minutes ago?
I was taking a shower.
What are you going to wear?
They describe in detail--
>>NOORY: Exactly what she said.
>>BRINKLEY: And the two
girls go back and forth
in the conversation.
And that's on YouTube.
Anybody can look
it up on YouTube.
That's like '91.
'90, '91.
>>NOORY: But you put in just
"Joan Rivers," whatever?
>>BRINKLEY: "Joan
Rivers, Dannion Brinkley,
Raymond Moody," you'd find it.
But so the point of where
we are now in our lives
is we have to move past
being afraid of being
spiritual human beings and
look at a finite position that
comes based on the allotted
time we have to be here
and what we've accomplished.
When you die with
people, George,
you realize that they have
to need a sense of wholeness.
They have to know
their life had value.
And they have to have a
technique by which you
interact with them so that you
help facilitate that happening.
>>NOORY: Box 12,
tell us about that.
And you have an
excerpt from your book.
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah.
Well, when you go
back to 1975 knowing
that I've been at
this for 45 years,
I'm not new to the
death business.
Well, there was a series
of Boxes of Knowledge
that that's what I call them,
that these beings had each
transmitted to me.
We're now in the
final box, Box 12.
Each of the 12 beings
gave me a box of knowledge
and I stayed with me.
And when we saw about Raymond, I
told him in '76 that the Soviet
Union would collapse
and then there
would be a nuclear accident,
there would be one.
And then there would be another
one even worse, and then
Fukushima.
And then there would be
another one even worse.
Well, when all those
things happened,
it started Raymond to thinking
and he started telling this.
Well, I think we're in Box 12.
And there's a good part to it
and a bad part, but I'll just--
>>NOORY: And you
wrote this when?
>>BRINKLEY: I wrote this in
1993 using the same language
that I wrote it down
in the notebooks
when me and Paul Perry sat down.
"Before the turn of
the century--" and this
is all about computer
chips and technology.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>BRINKLEY: Microsoft, Oracle,
all these software programs.
"One person will become
one of the richest,
so rich he had a stranglehold
on the economy--"
that would be software.
"Still the world welcomed
him and the chip design that
put the world on an even keel.
And what it would do was
it would put information
of all your medical
records in this technology
and it would go into your body.
A government agency wanted
to know something about you,
they could just scan the chip--"
which is where we are now.
"There was an even more
sinister side to this chip.
A person's lifetime could be
limited by programming the chip
to dissolve or kill them
with a virtual substance.
Lifetimes could be
controlled like this
to avoid the cost of growing
old placed on the government.
It was a means to eliminate
people with chronic illness
and put a drain on
the medical system."
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>BRINKLEY: That was 1975.
But no.
Wait, wait.
It's exciting times,
George, for me.
The end of the--
>>NOORY: Not for everybody.
>>BRINKLEY: Well, but
the end of the era.
The end of the era and the
shift in consciousness.
There was going to be a
People will look at
death as a part of life
and start to live
that life that way.
And what happens is you become
compassionate and caring.
And the things that you place
value on changes and shifts.
Because once you get comfortable
with not being afraid,
once you get
comfortable, you open
yourself up to such
enormous potential in a time
to blossom or to be controlled.
>>NOORY: You just had a key
word there and phrase, "once we
get comfortable."
How many people are
scared of dying?
>>BRINKLEY: Everybody's
scared to death of death.
>>NOORY: Nobody wants to die.
>>BRINKLEY: Well, it's because
of this reason, George--
getting there.
What you watch someone
you love go through
with the advancements
of medical treatments,
you face the fear of
death, not death itself.
It is the fear of
watching people slowly
die because the
medical profession can
keep you alive longer.
Nobody's going to
go before their time
because you breathe the
X amount of breaths.
But by not being afraid of
it, you reduce your own fear.
I have already been
through all the pain
that a human being
can go through.
>>NOORY: You sure have.
>>BRINKLEY: There
ain't no question.
And I've been through it.
And I've lost everything in
medical and all that stuff.
But I get up every
day and so thankful
that I am a spiritual being--
>>NOORY: You keep bouncing back.
You're like a rubber
ball, for crying out loud.
>>BRINKLEY: But you know what?
I think I do this,
George, because, watch.
If I have to symbolize that
there is no such thing as death
as it's described to you, that
death as you think it happens
does not happen.
And then listen to my
way of looking at it
and see if it benefits you.
And that comes from going
through this experience four
times.
It's caused from
having this experience
and spending 43 years as
a hospice volunteer, 37
years in the VA, more than
34,000 hours at the bedside.
>>NOORY: And thank you
for that, by the way.
>>BRINKLEY: But, you
know, Semper Fidelis.
I was in the Navy
one day a month.
My check said
Department of the Navy.
Other than that, I was
in the Marine Corps.
>>NOORY: Yes, you were.
>>BRINKLEY: And your
check said the same thing.
So thank you.
Because without you,
George, and without Art
and without Premiere,
the voice that we
have built over 25 years--
and as strong as it is and
me watching the response that
comes back from it--
we're doing
enormously good work.
And as military guys,
our Semper Fidelis,
which means ever
faithful, we deserve
to pat ourselves on the back.
>>NOORY: There's a Gaia show,
"The Teachings of Ram Dass,"
and he speaks about death
in a very similar way.
>>RAM DASS: A part of the
work is developing the ability
to be with somebody that's
dying or be dying yourself
and stay very clear
and very present.
Because those that are
from religions that
focus on the moment of death--
which is most of
the religions that
have reincarnation
in them-- see life
as a preparation for
the moment of death.
They see that.
And they see, as Don
Juan says, that you keep
death over your left shoulder.
You live each moment as
if it's your last moment.
Not in a kind of macabre,
horrible, negative way,
but in a way in
which each moment is
the one where if it's
to be your death moment,
it's, ah, here I am.
Right.
Very clear.
Now I'm dying.
Now the body is dropping away.
Like the Tibetans
in describing--
in the Tibetan Book
of the Dead, they
describe the dying moments.
And they talk about the
Earth element leaves,
and you feel heaviness.
The water element
leaves, you feel dryness.
The fire element leaves,
you feel coldness.
The air element
leaves, your out breath
is not followed by an in breath.
What follows after
the incarnation
is what's created
by the attachments
of the moment of death.
So that those beings
that are going
to go into the white
light are about 3/4
of the way turned around
before the moment of death.
They're already right
here with all of it,
even before they die.
So that a lot of the work
you're doing in a lifetime
is the preparation for
the moment of death.
And keeping death present
enriches the moment of life.
>>NOORY: When you died,
Dannion, several times,
did you see lights and
strange things too?
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah.
For me, it's always
been a system.
Every one of them had a similar
structure except the third one.
The 1997 brain
surgery was different.
And I discovered another
dimension of reality.
And I never knew about ghosts,
George, or reincarnation.
When people ask me
about reincarnation,
I have no way to relate to in
my experiences to past lives.
I don't have a way to do it.
So you don't ever hear me
talk about it because I'm not
going to talk about
stuff that I don't
know what I'm talking about.
>>NOORY: And you haven't
gone through hypnotherapy
or anything like that?
>>BRINKLEY: None of that.
So there is a structure
that you pass--
there is a meadow or a
veil or a tunnel, something
that shows transition.
In the third experience,
instead of floating
above like the first two,
I was 22 years later.
And it was brain surgery.
I was standing by the
bed watching myself.
>>NOORY: It was an OBE.
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah.
I was watching myself.
And as I moved to the place that
where I floated above normally
before, the first two
times, I realized that this
was a dimension in itself.
It wasn't a transition
period where
you could watch what's
going on and then you
go down the tunnel,
it was a level
of consciousness in itself.
And I saw beings there.
I mean, there were
people who were trapped.
And it's like the
Bardos to the Tibetans
and like the purgatory.
>>NOORY: Were they screaming?
>>BRINKLEY: No.
>>NOORY: Nothing like that.
>>BRINKLEY: What people--
free will, George--
because we are
electrical beings.
Free will sets up that you don't
have to go down the tunnel.
There are people-- why
I created the Twilight
Brigade was because I saw
veterans that felt deserted.
I saw periods of
people in uniforms--
>>NOORY: That was very smart
and astute of you to do that.
>>BRINKLEY: Because
it's just me.
And then I saw people who didn't
want to go down that tunnel
because they had
been abused and they
didn't want to go down there.
And then there were psychopaths
and alcoholics and drug addicts
still trying to
get back over here,
get back over here
and not accept the fact that
they had already transitioned.
And so I then understood
where a ghost came from,
what possessions operate,
how that comes about.
But I didn't know
that until 1997.
I didn't know it.
So there are a standard
way you leave this world.
It's structured.
It's orderly.
Now, for my first time,
I'm struck by lightning,
hits me in the side of the
neck, throws me in the air,
slams me back down the bed.
It knocks me out of
my shoes, George.
I'm burning.
I'm on fire.
And I can't see.
And the next thing--
I mean, because it went
down my spine and burnt--
I mean, I had these
markings all over me.
It burned off like
an inch of my beard.
But the place I went to, I
could see, there was no pain,
and I could move
from severe pain.
I was completely paralyzed--
>>NOORY: And then you had
to come back again, right?
>>BRINKLEY: --and
make that body work.
I had to come back--
>>NOORY: Did that take time?
Years?
>>BRINKLEY: Two years.
It took two years.
I mean, I would pass out and
fall over and wet myself and--
I mean, the most horrible--
I was my first hospice patient.
So I understood what goes on
when you're losing control.
I'm my first hospice patient.
You're not going to
tell me about what
happens to people as
they get ready to go
and how you prepare for it.
And I want people to
understand, how do you
prepare for helping someone
transition without you getting
involved in the
abandonment issue?
People feel that
they're being abandoned
and they put people that
they love through things
that are not necessary.
And if you know what I know,
then the supportiveness
of that and the techniques that
you use bring closure for you.
It brings closure for them.
It sets a value in their life.
And you can let them go
knowing you'll see them again,
knowing that you'll
see them again.
And you can let him go
because that part was done.
The continuity and the
continualization of life
is the point we have to accept.
>>NOORY: Did these
out-of-body experiences
and after-death experiences
make you a better person?
>>BRINKLEY: [LAUGHS] You
already know the answer
to that, George!
I was a jerk.
I mean, arrogant, pompous,
humiliating, dehumanizing
people and cynical
and snide, you know.
But once you see
it-- well, come on.
And once you see--
>>NOORY: You changed.
I can attest to that.
>>BRINKLEY: You have no choice.
I tried to get away from it.
I tried to stay away from it.
But what they do?
They killed me again.
I got struck--
>>NOORY: And again.
>>BRINKLEY: I got
struck by lightning
because I rejected it.
And then once I met Raymond
and looked at all the people
that were writing
about it and listen
to people talking about
their experiences,
I needed it to go away.
Because watch this,
George, people
want you to stay the same
even if it's not good,
because you create change.
My father was watching the
change in me and watching--
and who knows me really well
like my brother and sister--
and they still didn't--
everybody wanted me
to stay the same.
They didn't want me to become
the person that I was becoming,
even as bad as I was.
And why I created the character
that's Dannion was there's
people who are having this
kind of experience, George--
>>NOORY: All the time.
>>BRINKLEY: --and
nobody listens to them.
>>NOORY: No, they're all alone.
>>BRINKLEY: And they
have no one to talk to,
and they feel helpless.
And somebody has to stand up
for those people's rights.
And I decided they might
as well pick on me.
I would take on anybody that
thinks that the near-death
experience--
>>NOORY: You're
difficult to pick on.
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah, well, come
get you some's all I could tell
them because--
>>NOORY: Bring it on, right?
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah.
Whatever the rules,
let's get to it.
>>NOORY: I want to look at--
Guy Finley was on Gaia's
"Inspirations" show
with Lisa Garr.
Let's see what he has to say.
>>GUY FINLEY: When
we think of death,
what are we thinking about?
Fear of the unknown.
Did you know you can't
fear the unknown?
>>LISA GARR: OK,
you got me there.
[LAUGHTER]
>>FINLEY: You can't.
You can only fear the known.
And you can't know
what death is.
>>GARR: People fear the
unknown all the time.
>>FINLEY: No, they don't.
They fear what their mind
tells them is going to happen
and they call that unknown.
You can't fear what is unknown.
What is unknown, you don't know.
We fear the known.
Our mind paints these pictures.
Remember, when we started
talking about this?
I said, no fear without
negative imagination?
So here I am, I'm sick
and now-- and listen,
even deeper than that, I'm
sick and what I really fear
is that I'm going to be
inadequate to this thing.
I don't know what's
going to happen to me.
I don't know how
I'm going to be.
I've been pushing
down a lot of stuff,
it's all going to come up.
People are going to
see me the way I am.
Oh my God, no, no, no.
So it's all fear of the known,
not fear of the unknown.
>>GARR: So fear of death
is fear of going somewhere
where we really don't
know where we're going?
>>FINLEY: Fear of death is
the movement on a part of us
that believes, unless it
knows where it's going,
that place doesn't exist.
>>NOORY: Do you agree with him?
>>BRINKLEY: No.
>>NOORY: You don't?
I didn't think so.
>>BRINKLEY: But he's
wording it reasonably sane.
People are afraid
of the unknown,
but you have religions,
institutions, and governments
that construct the reality.
And then you have
pharmacology and psychiatrists
that give meaning to it.
Then you have philosophy.
But nonetheless, you will
take your last breath here.
This is what will happen.
And the more you're
prepared for it
and the more you understand
it and the better that you
understand it, the more
living you're going to do.
When you look at all those
things combined, George,
we have come to the end of an
era as foretold for 45 years.
And that era is here.
And the next two years are
critical in our thinking
about how we view
our health care
and how we view our destiny.
Because when you start
giving up your rights
and you start giving up the
control of your own body,
the only way that can happen
is through health care.
And if the battle for
the souls of humankind
is going to be fought in health
care, we are presently there.
And that moment to wake
up and realize this--
and I've said this for years--
you are a great, powerful,
and mighty spiritual being
with dignity,
direction, and purpose.
And the only thing
that can ever go wrong
is you allow something to
affect your dignity which
skews your direction
and your purpose.
Once that sets in play,
there are two things, George,
that never happen in
the spiritual world.
They never happen.
They don't exist.
That is helplessness
and loneliness.
>>NOORY: Yes.
And there are a lot of
people that feel that way.
>>BRINKLEY: Helplessness
comes when you're born
and when you leave.
And loneliness creates
what's called despair.
Those things don't exist
until you come here.
To be helpless and to be
lonely and to practice
being a divine
being or to practice
being a compassionate
being is the rules
that you come here under.
Something that does
not happen, like death,
there is no religion
that I've ever
seen that describes
death the way
I've watched it for 45 years and
been at the bedside of people
going from this world to the
next and people resuscitated.
You're not going to tell me.
There is an art form.
And that art form is so
consistent, so loving,
so compassionate,
and so structured.
To not know about it so you
get the most out of your life
is a mistake that we're making.
Because our health care
is going to be where,
what will you not do to
protect your parents,
take care of your children
and your grandchildren,
and look after yourself?
That's it.
That's how it will work.
And that's where we are now.
>>NOORY: And where
is forgiveness
fit into this equation?
>>BRINKLEY:
Forgiveness is power.
It's not weakness.
Forgiveness is an
internal structure
that you take as if you are
divine, that you are divine.
You have to look at it and
what was the intention of why
this happened.
You have to stop for a
second and look at why.
A spiritual being, George, can
never see itself as a victim.
I have never seen
myself as a victim.
>>NOORY: Never?
Not even the first time?
>>BRINKLEY: Never as a victim.
>>NOORY: Wrong
place, wrong time?
>>BRINKLEY: I had it coming.
[LAUGHS] You know?
That's how I--
I had it coming.
>>NOORY: But they
kicked you back?
>>BRINKLEY: Well, you know--
>>NOORY: And again and again.
>>BRINKLEY: Well--
>>NOORY: They don't want you.
>>BRINKLEY: Well, long
ago, George, someone said--
she said Dannion, why do you
think that they picked you?
Why do you think you were chosen
for this mission, and all this?
And I said, well, I already
know the answer to that.
They had completely
run out of messiahs
and they were scraping the
absolute bottom of the barrel.
>>NOORY: And they found you and.
>>BRINKLEY: Yeah.
And Michael and Gabriel
were down at the cloud bar
doing angel shots and
they said, I got an idea.
Let's go find a jackass,
let's go kill Dannion,
and pile this off on him.
Ta-da.
>>NOORY: And here he is.
>>BRINKLEY: And here I still am.
But do you know what, George?
I'd like to thank you and
Gaia and you doing this show.
I mean, people are
in need of getting
a grip on who they
really are as opposed
to who they're
being told they are,
and to hold on that deeply,
spiritually, and committed.
>>NOORY: Dannion, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>BRINKLEY: George, thank you
so very much for having me.
And thank you for
doing this show.
>>NOORY: I love this program.
And more importantly,
Dannion has taught us all not
to fear death.
We're in no rush to get there.
But when that time
comes, we'll be ready.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]